Now inside of our app Jesus we're calling that new create user profile document function that we just
made what we want to do is we want to make sure that we also call our set state with current user with
the actual object itself.
So what we'll do here is we will modify our code to make sure that we understand what's actually happening.
So first let's change the user to user off because now we know what we're getting back is a user off
and we'll say if the user off object is not null meaning if it exists right.
We remember that user auth could be no more signing out.
And we don't want to set anything here.
Right.
If it's site if we're signing up we remember what we get back from our function is the user ref.
We made sure that we were passing back the user rather rough object right right here at the end.
We want it because we're going to use it to check if our database has updated.
At that reference with any new data very similar to our on off state change we're kind of seeing if
the snapshot has changed but chances are it won't have because we are not going to update the user ever
inside of our code.
But the pro of what this method will do which I'll show you in a second is that the moment it instantiate
meaning that the moment our code runs it it will still send us a snapshot object representing the data
that is currently stored in our database and that method is on snapshot calling on snapshot is very
similar to calling on off state changed and what we get back is the snapshot object.
And on the snapshot object is where we're going to get the data related to this user that we just possibly
stored right.
If it was a new authentication or the data related to the user that is already stored in our database
let's talk about these snapshot objects a document snapshot.
Object is one that of course we get from our document reference object.
Right.
Using the dot get method as we saw it allows us to check if the document exists as we know but it also
allows us to get properties of that data using the DOT data method we actually do not get any data until
we use the data method.
So I'll show you if right now I simply console log my snapshot here we get our snapshot.
You see that it has the exists it has the I.D. but it doesn't have any of the properties we have to
call dot data in order to actually see what our data looks like and it'll come back to us as an object
with those properties inside of our database.
Right.
So the display name emailed to create it out of course are the properties that we use to store in here.
So this is the main thing that we need to use but we see that we don't have the I.D. Now.
If you remember on the snapshot itself was the idea of where we currently are in our user ref right
as well as the idea that represents the data of our snapshot right here.
So we need to use these two things combined and call our set state of our current user right here and
what we're going to do is we're just going to call set state here passing in an object with our current
user value going to the idea of our Snapshot.
I.D. and then we're gonna spread in snapshot dot data.
Right.
Because we get back the object representing the values.
So we're just creating a new object that has both all of the properties of our snapshot that we want
as well as the I.D. that we want and then just to make sure we're getting everything right.
Let's just console log.
This dot state right.
Just to make sure that we're getting this through now outside of this function outside of this function
call where we're checking whether or not the user off exists.
We also want to make sure that our app is aware if the user auth is no meaning if the user signs out.
We still want to set current user to nothing as well.
So if the user off object comes back and it's known then what we want to do after this is called this
dot set state where current user goes to our user on which we know is not right.
So this is equivalent to saying current user to know.
So now what will happen is if a user signs in right we'll check if they're actually signing in right.
Because we'll see if there's a user.
So if there is we will get back the user ref from our create user profile document method from the user
auth object being passed in.
If there was a document there we will simply just get back the user.
If there is no document there.
We will create a new object and document right in that place and we'll still get back the user ref and
then we're gonna subscribe.
Meaning we're going to listen to this user ref right for any changes to that data.
But we'll also get back the first state of that data so then using that we are going to set the state
of our local objects with the national I.D. and the snapshots data.
And then if the user ever logs out we'll make sure to set the current user tunnel right setting it to
the null that we'll get back from the off library.
And now that we have all of this let's actually see what happens.
We made a mistake with our console log.
So if you remember our console log can't go after set state because set state is a synchronous meaning
that there is a chance that when we call it sets date is not actually finished being called.
The only way for us to make sure that said state is fully called and then we're able to see what the
state of it is is we pass a second function right as a parameter in state as the second parameter where
we do the actual logging and sets they will then call our function after state as fully propagated.
So now we see that we're actually storing our current user and this is actually all of the data that
we got from our database as well as the created that sign and the I.D. so hopefully this was not too
overwhelming.
I know that this is a lot of new code that we just covered and it's definitely a lot of code that we
haven't seen before.
All related to the firestorm firebase library we've also mixed and matched the off and the fire story
library code together to create these new objects inside of our database and then bring them back in
and then store them.
There's a lot of back and forth.
I know it's a lot of confusing code but also a confusing flow but I promise you the more you practice
with both these RAF objects and these snapshot objects the better you'll understand the purpose of what
each is for and this is actually pretty much the core of how we use the Firestone library.
It's actually really simple.
Once you've mastered and understood these concepts that we've just covered now let's get rid of this
because we don't need this anymore and we'll work on our sign up next.
Right.
Which is more with our auth library.
But now that we've done this flow inside of our objects if we add our sign up with email and password
write this code is all still going to work the exact same because we've compartmentalized our actual
storage and our actual set state separately from our authentication and that'll make more sense once
we actually start writing the sign up.
But definitely re watch these last few videos if you feel confused about firebase it's incredibly powerful
and it does have a bit of a learning curve to get used to how to use it but it's very valuable because
this is actually way way easier than any other way of spinning up our own back in server and authentication
service so let's tackle sign up next.